documentation: add an actual README to the project (#995)
rero/rero-ils: README.rst

*centrale* (the librarians and developers team that maintains the network)
decides to develop an open source ILS from scratch, to be able to address all
the futur needs of it’s partners and customers.

RERO ILS is based on a development framework for information systems
such as library management (ILS), institutional repositories, digital
libraries and research data management. This framework, developed at
`CERN <https://home.cern/>`__ is called
`Invenio <https://inveniosoftware.org/>`__.

Who’s going to run RERO ILS, in which context?
----------------------------------------------

RERO ILS is a *free software*, which means that you are free to copy,
modify and distribute it, as long as you respect the
`AGPv3 <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html>`__ license.

RERO ILS allows a team of library professionals and IT people to provide
an ILS *as a Service* to several library networks through a unique
instance (installation) of the software. This is what we call the
*consortial model feature*. Each network, or organisation as we named
it, is very much isolated from the other networks, but they share
together a union catalog, which helps discovering documents and sharing

> cataloguing effort. Inside a network, libraries share fast everything,

Author: You're right.

without preventing specific configuration or restricting the edition of
some resources to a library.

RERO ILS is very much adapted to the needs of the RERO *centrale* and
its partners and customers, but we think it’s generic enough to be used
in other contexts as our own, with some effort on configuration or
development. It can be run for a standalone library by an instance with
only one organisation, having only one library, but RERO ILS is not
designed for that use case. It’s powerful, thus complex.

What does RERO ILS?
---------------------

It provides a *public interface* for visitors and patrons. This
interface is mainly a search interface into the catalog. It has multiple
view, the union catalog with all the documents of all the organisations
of the instance, and a view for each organisations with all the

> documents with at least one item belonging to one of its library.

Author: Yeah, but in fact documents do not belong to organisation, only items do.

Patrons will be able to place request on desired items, check their
profile, the list of borrowed documents and so on.

Librarians can access to a *professional interface*, in which they can
achieve their daily tasks:

-  Administrating and setting networks, libraries, circulation policies.
-  Managing patrons, but also librarian and system librarians.
-  Performing circulation tasks, such as checkins, checkouts, renewals,
   managing requests.
-  Managing patrons fees (overdue, subscriptions).
-  Searching for documents, describing documents, linking authorities to
   documents, importing metadata in MARC format, adding items to
   documents.
-  Setting serials patterns, receiving issues.
-  Managing acquisition budgets, vendors information, orders and
   invoices.

How to install RERO ILS?
------------------------

The installation process is described in a `specific file <INSTALL.rst>`__.

> For a development environment you can check another `documentation <https://github.com/rero/developer-resources/blob/master/rero-instances/rero-ils/dev_installation.md>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a development environment you can check another `documentation <https://github.com/rero/developer-resources/blob/master/rero-instances/rero-ils/dev_installation.md>`__.
```

Check the `ecosystem <#the-rero-ils-ecosystem>`__ section.

How to contribute to RERO ILS?
------------------------------

You can test the latest release on
`ils.test.rero.ch <https://ils.test.rero.ch>`__.

> If you have question, you can ask the development team on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have questions, you can ask the development team on
```

`Gitter <https://gitter.im/rero/reroils>`__.

You can also `open an issue <https://github.com/rero/rero-ils/issues/new>`__.

To contribute to the code itself, please check the

> `contributing recommandations <https://github.com/rero/rero-ils/blob/dev/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`contributing recommandations <https://github.com/rero/rero-ils/blob/dev/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`__.
```

The RERO ILS ecosystem
----------------------

> Three Github repositories for RERO ILS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Three GitHub repositories for RERO ILS
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This `Github project <https://github.com/rero/rero-ils>`__ is the main projet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `rero-ils GitHub repository <https://github.com/rero/rero-ils>`__ contains the main projet
```

> for RERO ILS, basically it provides the backend. But to work on the frontend of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for RERO ILS, basically providing the backend. To work on the frontend of
```

> the project, you will need also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the project, you also need
```

`rero-ils-ui <https://github.com/rero/rero-ils-ui>`__, which is based on

> `ng-core <https://github.com/rero/ng-core>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ng-core <https://github.com/rero/ng-core>`__. But there's also `rero-mef <https://github.com/rero/rero-mef>`__ and `rero-ebooks <https://github.com/rero/rero-ebooks>`__.
```

MEF
^^^

> On top of that, RERO ILS make use of two other RERO projects. The first one is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The
```

> `MEF <https://github.com/rero/rero-mef>`__, a *Multilingual Entity File*, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`MEF <https://github.com/rero/rero-mef>`__ (*Multilingual Entity File*)
```

> provides authorities (or entities) to RERO ILS, in two languages (for now):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provides authorities (or entities) to RERO ILS, in two languages (for now, but others are planned):
```

> French and German. This is used to link documents to controlled description of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
French and German. This is used to link documents to controlled descriptions of
```

> authors or subjects. MEF is aggregating several authority files, such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authors and subjects. MEF aggregates several authority files, such as
```

`IdRef <https://www.idref.fr/>`__,
`BnF <https://www.bnf.fr/fr/donnees-autorite-bnf>`__,
`GND <https://www.dnb.de/DE/Professionell/Standardisierung/GND/gnd_node.html>`__
and `RERO <http://data.rero.ch/>`__. These authority files are then aligned

> through `VIAF <https://viaf.org>`__, thus providing authorities in several

Reviewer: ```suggestion
through `VIAF <https://viaf.org>`__, thus providing multilingual authorities.
```

> languages. At this point of the project, only physical persons have been added

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of May 2020, only physical person records have been included
```

> to MEF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in MEF, the other entity types are in preparation.
```

> As a result, to run RERO ILS, you need either to use our

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, in order to run RERO ILS, you need to either use RERO's
```

`public MEF server <https://mef.test.rero.ch>`__, or run your own.

RERO EBOOKS
^^^^^^^^^^^

> Some of our partners are customers of an ebooks commercial providers. We have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RERO ILS customers make use of 3rd-party ebook commercial platforms.
```

> set up a server that harvests the metadata of these ebooks, converts the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A dedicated server has been set up for harvesting ebook metadata from those platforms, convert them
```

> metadata into our data model, and import them into our catalog, attributing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to RERO ILS's own data model, and import them into the union catalog, assigning
```

> each ebook to the library that subscribed to the platform. RERO ILS, then, is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
each ebook to the corresponding subscribing libraries. RERO ILS then
```

> harvesting our ebooks server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
harvests the ebooks server.
```

**NOTE:** It's not quite clear who does what. Is it the ebooks server that *imports them into the union catalog, assigning each ebook to the corresponding subscribing libraries*? Or is part of this job done by RERO ILS?

Author: You're right, I've reorganized this part, with the help of your corrections.

> But this server is not publicly accessible. The source code is available on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This server is not publicly accessible. The source code is available on
```

> Github: `rero-ebooks <https://github.com/rero/rero-ebooks>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub: `rero-ebooks <https://github.com/rero/rero-ebooks>`_.
```

> So, you'll either need to prevent your RERO ILS instance to harvest our ebooks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to prevent your RERO ILS instance to harvest RERO's ebooks
```

> server, or to run your own ebooks server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
server, but you can run your own ebooks server.
```

        :alt: Release Number
        :target: https://github.com/rero/rero-ils/releases/latest

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-AGPL%20v3-blue.svg
        :alt: License
        :target: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/rero/reroils.svg
        :alt: Gitter room
        :target: https://gitter.im/rero/reroils

*Copyright (C) 2020 RERO*

Table of Content
----------------

1. `Why RERO ILS?`_
2. `Who’s going to run RERO ILS, in which context?`_
3. `What does RERO ILS?`_
4. `How to install RERO ILS?`_
5. `How to contribute to RERO ILS?`_
6. `The RERO ILS ecosystem`_

Why RERO ILS?
-------------

> `RERO ILS`_ is an ILS by `RERO`_. ILS stands for `Integrated Library Service`_,

Reviewer 2: developed (or brought to you) by RERO?

which can be translated into “a software that helps libraries to do their daily

> tasks”, such as buying documents (books, ebooks, articles, pictures, movies,

Reviewer 2: enriching library collections ?

games, video games, music, music score, and so on), describing them to
facilitate their identification and their retrieval through the search feature
of the catalog, and of course, providing them to readers, usually called
patrons.

`RERO`_ is a Swiss network of libraries, which is undergoing a major
restructuring, in the framework of the `rero21`_ project. For this project,
RERO needs to replace the old proprietary ILS software that is in use and to
redirect its effort mainly towards public, school and heritage libraries. Based
on its 30 years experience running a library network and all the scripts and
side processes that had to be developed around the commercial product, the
*centrale* (the team of librarians and developers that maintain the network at
its central office) is developing an open source ILS, to be able to address all
the future needs of its partners and customers.

> Using the same aging commercial ILS and interested by the project for its own

Reviewer 2: legacy system

needs, the `UCLouvain libraries`_ are contributing to the development of RERO
ILS, and are well integrated into the RERO SCRUM processes.

RERO ILS is based on a development framework for information systems such as
library management (ILS), institutional repositories, digital libraries and
research data management. This framework, developed at `CERN`_ is called
`Invenio`_.

> Who’s going to run RERO ILS, in which context?

Reviewer 2: enjoy RERO ILS :-)

        :alt: Release Number
        :target: https://github.com/rero/rero-ils/releases/latest

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-AGPL%20v3-blue.svg
        :alt: License
        :target: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/rero/reroils.svg
        :alt: Gitter room
        :target: https://gitter.im/rero/reroils

*Copyright (C) 2020 RERO*

Table of Content
----------------

1. `Why RERO ILS?`_
2. `Who’s going to run RERO ILS, in which context?`_
3. `What does RERO ILS?`_
4. `How to install RERO ILS?`_
5. `How to contribute to RERO ILS?`_
6. `The RERO ILS ecosystem`_

> Why RERO ILS?

Reviewer 3: I would write "What is RERO ILS", because concretely we give a definition, not *reasons*.

partners and customers, both present and future. RERO provides its ILS *as a
service* to every interested library or organisation. But the software can be
deployed by other institutions, in different contexts as well, if they can
afford the required effort on configuration or development. It could be run for
a standalone library in an instance with only one organisation with a single
library, but RERO ILS is not designed for that use case. It’s powerful, thus
complex.

What does RERO ILS?
---------------------

RERO ILS is still under heavy development, but it already provides a *public
interface* for visitors and patrons. This interface mainly includes searching
features within the catalog, along with a set of other patron-oriented
functionalities. It has multiple views, the *union catalog* view, with all the
documents of all the organisations, and a view for each organisation with all
the documents belonging to one of its libraries. Patrons are able to place
requests on desired items, check their profile, see the list of borrowed items
and so on.

Librarians use a *professional interface*, in which they perform their daily

> tasks:

Reviewer 3: I would generalise this list of features, adding *etc.* at the end of each enumeration and simplifying the enumerations. Otherwise, it will have to be updated after each release.

-  Administering organisations, libraries, circulation policies.
-  Managing users: patrons, but also librarians and system librarians.
-  Performing circulation tasks, such as checkins, checkouts, renewals,
   managing requests.
-  Managing patron fees (overdue, subscriptions).
-  Searching for documents, describing documents, linking authorities to
   documents, importing metadata in MARC format, adding items to
   documents.
-  Setting serials patterns, receiving issues.
-  Managing acquisition budgets, vendor information, orders and invoices.

> The first major release of RERO ILS (``v1.0.0``) is planned for the end of 2020,

Reviewer 3: For me this paragraph doesn't belong to *What does RERO ILS*. We could add a section *Rollout and further developments*.

Author: @pronguen I've added a *present/future* mention, hoping it would be clearer.

Reviewer 3: It seems perfect, thanks! 👍

and to be live in production in the first half of 2021, with the minimal
features needed to run real world networks. Then, the development of RERO ILS
will go on to reach full ILS functions, but it will never ends, as long as a
software can always be improved and adapted to the need of its users.

How to install RERO ILS?
------------------------

The installation process is described in a `specific file`_.

For a development environment you can check another
`documentation`_.

Check the `ecosystem`_ section.

How to contribute to RERO ILS?
------------------------------

You can test the latest release on
`ils.test.rero.ch`_.

If you have questions, you can ask the development team on `Gitter`_.

You can also `open an issue`_.

To contribute to the code itself, please check the
`contributing recommandations`_.

The RERO ILS ecosystem
----------------------

Three GitHub repositories for RERO ILS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The `rero-ils GitHub project`_ contains the main projet for RERO ILS, basically
providing the backend. To work on the frontend of the project, you also need
`rero-ils-ui`_, which is based on `ng-core`_, MEF, and RERO EBOOKS (see the

> next two section).

Author: There's something wrong in this sentence, because actually you don't need MEF and EBOOKS to work on the frontend.
